README.md, before:

# Puzzle App

Solve jigsaw puzzles alone, with friends, or with the world! This application provides a seamless and interactive experience for collaborative puzzle-solving. Users can enjoy puzzles solo, share invite links to solve with friends or whomever they invite, or join public puzzles to collaborate with others.

---

## Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Features](#features)
3. [Installation](#installation)
4. [Configuration](#configuration)
5. [Usage](#usage)
6. [Architecture](#architecture)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)
8. [License](#license)
9. [FAQ](#faq)

---

## Overview

The Puzzle App is a web application built for puzzle enthusiasts who want to solve puzzles alone or collaboratively. With an easy-to-use puzzle creation wizard and robust multiplayer features, users can immerse themselves in a fun and engaging experience.

- **Version**: 1.0.0
- **Technologies Used**: NestJS, MongoDB, NATS Streaming Server, Redis, Minio
- **Primary Purpose**: Facilitate collaborative jigsaw puzzle-solving

---

## Features

- **Solo Mode**: Solve puzzles on your own.
- **Invite Friends**: Share a private invite link to collaborate on puzzles.
- **Public Puzzles**: Join or create public puzzles for anyone to participate.
- **User Authentication**:
  - Create an account OR
  - Sign in with Google.
- **Puzzle Creation Wizard**: Easily create custom puzzles using any image.
- **Real-Time Multiplayer**: Collaborate in real-time with others.

---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** (16.x or higher)
- **Docker**

### Steps

---

**_NOTE_**: Steps 3 and 4 need to be repeated for each listed directory:

- `client`
- `auth`
- `sync`
- `puzzle`
- `processing`

---

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/purpleb3ar/prpo.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the directory:
   ```bash
   cd prpo
   ```
3. Navigate to the service directory:
   ```bash
   cd <listed-directory>
   ```
4. Install dependencies
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

## Configuration

### Application Variables

Each microservice has a `config` folder which
houses service-specific configuration files.
There, you can find additional configuration options
related to each microservice respectively.

Some values are calculated but most are derived from environment variables.

### Environment Variables

Almost all environment variables can be left as-is inside the `.env.example` file. You simply have to rename it to `.env` inside each microservice directory.

- **App Configuration**:
  - `APP_NAME`: Name of the service, used for logging purposes
  - `NODE_ENV`: Environment type
  - `PORT`: HTTP listen port
  - `HTTP_ENABLE`: expose an HTTP interface or not
- **NATS Configuration**:
  - `NATS_SERVER_URL`: URL of the NATS Streaming Server.
  - `NATS_CLUSTER_ID`: The cluster identifier used in nats clustering mode to identify instances within the same cluster. In the context of the service, used to connect to a specific cluster.
  - `NATS_CLIENT_URL`: Nats server url
- **MongoDB Configuration**:
  - `MONGO_URI`: MongoDB connection string.
- **Redis Configuration**:
  - `REDIS_PORT`: Redis server port
  - `REDIS_HOST`: Redis server url
- **Authentication**:
  - `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`: Google OAuth client ID.
  - `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`: Google OAuth client secret.
- **JWT**:
  - `JWT_SECRET`: the JWT signing key used to verify JWTs
- **Minio**:
  - `MINIO_ACCESS_KEY`: minio service account access key (username)
  - `MINIO_SECRET_KEY`: minin service account secret key (password)
  - `MINIO_HOST`: Minio server url
  - `MINIO_PORT`: Minio server port

Example `.env` file:

```env
APP_NAME="sync-service"
NODE_ENV="development"
HTTP_ENABLE="true"
PORT=9003

NATS_CLUSTER_ID="puzzle-app"
NATS_CLIENT_NAME="sync-service"
NATS_CLIENT_URL="http://localhost:4222"

MONGO_URI="mongodb://root:example@localhost:27019/"

JWT_SECRET="vojaško-industrijski-kompleks"

REDIS_PORT=7622
REDIS_HOST="localhost"
```

Each microservice has a different `.env` depending on which
services they depend on. You can get more information about environment variables for each microservice
by looking at the contents of the `config` directory.

**NOTE**: In order for `Google SSO` to work correctly, you will need to supply your own values to the `auth` service.

---

## Usage

### Starting the backend services

---

**_NOTE_**: Step 2 needs to be repeated for each of the listed directories:

- `auth`
- `processing`
- `puzzle`
- `sync`

---

Move into project root (the location where `docker-compose.yaml` resides) then:

1. Spin-up containers:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```
2. Start the service
   npm run start:dev

---

### Starting the React client

After you've successfully started the backend services, in order
to try out the application you need to also start the `React` client.

1. Navigate to the `client` directory:
   ```bash
   cd client
   ```
2. Start the application:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
3. Access the application at `http://localhost:5173`.

### Puzzle Creation

Create your own puzzle using the creation wizard which can be accessed by pressing the `Create` button in the top right.

After saving, your puzzle will have a loading indicator at the start
which will disappear as soon as the puzzle is ready to be played.

### Browse puzzles

Browse your own puzzles or browse the public puzzles
by changing the filter in the top left.

### Multiplayer

Create a shared puzzle by changing visibility to `invite-only`.
Share the invite link or join an existing public puzzle
by pressing the `Play` button next to the desired puzzle.

---

## Architecture

The application follows a **microservices architecture**, ensuring scalability and flexibility.

- **Technologies**:
  - **NestJS**: Framework for building the services.
  - **MongoDB**: Each microservice connects to its own MongoDB instance.
  - **NATS Streaming Server**: Enables asynchronous communication between microservices.
- **Key Microservices**:
  - **Authentication Service**: Handles user sign-up/sign-in and Google OAuth and profile management.
  - **Puzzle Service**: Manages puzzle creation and state.
  - **Sync Service**: Synchronizes multiplayer interactions and tracks progress.
  - **Processing Server**: Turns user-provided images into solvable jigsaw puzzles.

---

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature-name
   ```
3. Commit changes:
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Add feature"
   ```
4. Push the branch:
   ```bash
   git push origin feature-name
   ```
5. Submit a pull request.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

## FAQ

1. **Can I play with my friends?**
   Sure! Create an "invite-only" puzzle using the creation wizard
   and share the invite link with them.

2. **Can I upload custom images for puzzles?**
   Yes! Use the puzzle creation wizard to upload your own images.

3. **How can I report a bug?**
   Open an issue on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/purpleb3ar/prpo/issues).

Commit message:

created .env.example files, changed readme to include minio config section

README.md, after:

# Puzzle App

Solve jigsaw puzzles alone, with friends, or with the world! This application provides a seamless and interactive experience for collaborative puzzle-solving. Users can enjoy puzzles solo, share invite links to solve with friends or whomever they invite, or join public puzzles to collaborate with others.

---

## Table of Contents

1. [Overview](#overview)
2. [Features](#features)
3. [Installation](#installation)
4. [Configuration](#configuration)
5. [Usage](#usage)
6. [Architecture](#architecture)
7. [Contributing](#contributing)
8. [License](#license)
9. [FAQ](#faq)

---

## Overview

The Puzzle App is a web application built for puzzle enthusiasts who want to solve puzzles alone or collaboratively. With an easy-to-use puzzle creation wizard and robust multiplayer features, users can immerse themselves in a fun and engaging experience.

- **Version**: 1.0.0
- **Technologies Used**: NestJS, MongoDB, NATS Streaming Server, Redis, Minio
- **Primary Purpose**: Facilitate collaborative jigsaw puzzle-solving

---

## Features

- **Solo Mode**: Solve puzzles on your own.
- **Invite Friends**: Share a private invite link to collaborate on puzzles.
- **Public Puzzles**: Join or create public puzzles for anyone to participate.
- **User Authentication**:
  - Create an account OR
  - Sign in with Google.
- **Puzzle Creation Wizard**: Easily create custom puzzles using any image.
- **Real-Time Multiplayer**: Collaborate in real-time with others.

---

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **Node.js** (16.x or higher)
- **Docker**

### Steps

---

**_NOTE_**: Steps 3 and 4 need to be repeated for each listed directory:

- `client`
- `auth`
- `sync`
- `puzzle`
- `processing`

---

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/purpleb3ar/prpo.git
   ```
2. Navigate to the directory:
   ```bash
   cd prpo
   ```
3. Navigate to the service directory:
   ```bash
   cd <listed-directory>
   ```
4. Install dependencies
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

## Configuration

### Application Variables

Each microservice has a `config` folder which
houses service-specific configuration files.
There, you can find additional configuration options
related to each microservice respectively.

Some values are calculated but most are derived from environment variables.

### Environment Variables

Almost all environment variables can be left as-is inside the `.env.example` file. You simply have to rename it to `.env` inside each microservice directory.

- **App Configuration**:
  - `APP_NAME`: Name of the service, used for logging purposes
  - `NODE_ENV`: Environment type
  - `PORT`: HTTP listen port
  - `HTTP_ENABLE`: expose an HTTP interface or not
- **NATS Configuration**:
  - `NATS_SERVER_URL`: URL of the NATS Streaming Server.
  - `NATS_CLUSTER_ID`: The cluster identifier used in nats clustering mode to identify instances within the same cluster. In the context of the service, used to connect to a specific cluster.
  - `NATS_CLIENT_URL`: Nats server url
- **MongoDB Configuration**:
  - `MONGO_URI`: MongoDB connection string.
- **Redis Configuration**:
  - `REDIS_PORT`: Redis server port
  - `REDIS_HOST`: Redis server url
- **Authentication**:
  - `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID`: Google OAuth client ID.
  - `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET`: Google OAuth client secret.
- **JWT**:
  - `JWT_SECRET`: the JWT signing key used to verify JWTs
- **Minio**:
  - `MINIO_ACCESS_KEY`: minio service account access key (username)
  - `MINIO_SECRET_KEY`: minin service account secret key (password)
  - `MINIO_HOST`: Minio server url
  - `MINIO_PORT`: Minio server port

Example `.env` file:

```env
APP_NAME="sync-service"
NODE_ENV="development"
HTTP_ENABLE="true"
PORT=9003

NATS_CLUSTER_ID="puzzle-app"
NATS_CLIENT_NAME="sync-service"
NATS_CLIENT_URL="http://localhost:4222"

MONGO_URI="mongodb://root:example@localhost:27019/"

JWT_SECRET="vojaško-industrijski-kompleks"

REDIS_PORT=7622
REDIS_HOST="localhost"
```

Each microservice has a different `.env` depending on which
services they depend on. You can get more information about environment variables for each microservice
by looking at the contents of the `config` directory.

**NOTE**: In order for `Google SSO` to work correctly, you will need to supply your own values to the `auth` service.

---

### Minio

In order for microservices to be able to access your local containerized
minio instance, they will need correct credentials and a bucket. Follow
the below steps to generate and apply them.

1. Access the `Minio` management platform at `http://localhost:12001`
2. Login using credentials found inside the `docker-compose.yml` file.
3. Go to the `Buckets` tab under the `Administrator` section
4. Click on the `Create Bucket` button in the top-right.
5. Create a bucket named `puzzles`.
6. Then go to the `Access Keys` tab under the `User` section
7. Click on the `Create access key` button in the top-right.
8. Click on the `Create` button.
9. Copy the `Access Key` and `Secret Key`.

Then go to the `puzzle` microservices `.env` file and replace
the `<minio-access-key>` with your access key and the
`<minio-secret-key>` with your secret key.

Repeat this for the `processing` service and you are done.

> **_NOTE_**: I omit creating an iam policy to limit access because I assume that this minio instance is local to this deployment.

## Usage

### Starting the backend services

---

**_NOTE_**: Step 2 needs to be repeated for each of the listed directories:

- `auth`
- `processing`
- `puzzle`
- `sync`

---

Move into project root (the location where `docker-compose.yaml` resides) then:

1. Spin-up containers:
   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```
2. Start the service
   ```bash
   npm run start:dev
   ```

---

### Starting the React client

After you've successfully started the backend services, in order
to try out the application you need to also start the `React` client.

1. Navigate to the `client` directory:
   ```bash
   cd client
   ```
2. Start the application:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```
3. Access the application at `http://localhost:5173`.

### Puzzle Creation

Create your own puzzle using the creation wizard which can be accessed by pressing the `Create` button in the top right.

After saving, your puzzle will have a loading indicator at the start
which will disappear as soon as the puzzle is ready to be played.

### Browse puzzles

Browse your own puzzles or browse the public puzzles
by changing the filter in the top left.

### Multiplayer

Create a shared puzzle by changing visibility to `invite-only`.
Share the invite link or join an existing public puzzle
by pressing the `Play` button next to the desired puzzle.

---

## Architecture

The application follows a **microservices architecture**, ensuring scalability and flexibility.

- **Technologies**:
  - **NestJS**: Framework for building the services.
  - **MongoDB**: Each microservice connects to its own MongoDB instance.
  - **NATS Streaming Server**: Enables asynchronous communication between microservices.
- **Key Microservices**:
  - **Authentication Service**: Handles user sign-up/sign-in and Google OAuth and profile management.
  - **Puzzle Service**: Manages puzzle creation and state.
  - **Sync Service**: Synchronizes multiplayer interactions and tracks progress.
  - **Processing Server**: Turns user-provided images into solvable jigsaw puzzles.

---

> **_NOTE_**: Specific information and technical details about each microservice is available inside a README.md file located in the microservices respective directries.

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch:
   ```bash
   git checkout -b feature-name
   ```
3. Commit changes:
   ```bash
   git commit -m "Add feature"
   ```
4. Push the branch:
   ```bash
   git push origin feature-name
   ```
5. Submit a pull request.

---

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

---

## FAQ

1. **Can I play with my friends?**
   Sure! Create an "invite-only" puzzle using the creation wizard
   and share the invite link with them.

2. **Can I upload custom images for puzzles?**
   Yes! Use the puzzle creation wizard to upload your own images.

3. **How can I report a bug?**
   Open an issue on our [GitHub repository](https://github.com/purpleb3ar/prpo/issues).
